## Python inner working

> python file_name.py

Example code:

**Filename:** module.py
```py
def greet():
    print("Hello from another file!")
```

**Filename:** main.py
```py
from module import greet

greet()
```

<br/><br/>

script  =>  Byte code (mostly hidden)  =>  Python VM (virtual machine)

1. Compile to byte code
   - Low level and platform independent
   - Byte code runs faster
   - .pyc : compiled python (frozen binaries)
     
- `__pycache__` (has the bytecode of imported modules)
- Source change is tracked and also python version is tracked in `__pycache__`
  `module.cpython-313.pyc`
  - module is filename
  - 313 indicates CPython version 3.13, This helps Python distinguish between bytecode compiled by different versions.
- works only for imported files
- Not for top level files (files which are not imported or files which have the main code)

### Python Virtual Machine (PVM)
- Code loop to iterate byte code
- Run time engine
- Also known as python interpreter
- #### Byte code is NOT machine code
  - Machine code is direct instruction for the machine, while byte code is later converted to machine code via an interpreter or a virtual machine (e.g., Python Virtual Machine or JVM).
  - The compiler (part of the interpreter) creates bytecode from your source code (.py).
  - The interpreter / virtual machine (e.g., Python Virtual Machine) executes the bytecode by translating it to machine code at runtime.
    >✔ So: Compiler creates bytecode.
    >✔ Interpreter / VM executes bytecode as machine code.
- Python specific interpretation
- Cpython, jython, Iron python, Stackless, PyPy
    - CPython is the default and most widely used implementation of Python.
    - It's written in C and uses a compiler + PVM combo.
